Minister, and thank you very much, you and your officials for being here, and being
here early too. We greatly appreciate it.
Look, we have
half an hour with you this afternoon, so what I propose is if you want to introduce
yourselves briefly, and then opening statements, and then we'll have questions from
there.
Great.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, members of the committee.
Thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today.
I'd like to introduce our acting chief executive, Brendan Boyle,
who is a very experienced public servant, and is doing a
great job leading the agency. And then next to me, I have Joe,
who's been very involved in the commissioning of some of the contracts which we may
discuss today.
I thought what I would do today is update you on some of the progress
the Social Investment Agency has made since we last met, and take you through
a number of the areas of our work program, and then, of course, you'll take
questions where you wish to take them.
The first area of progress is that we now have delivery underway
under the Social Investment Fund.
To refresh members, that Social Investment Fund has four different
streams
of commissioning. One is new investments and social investment
contracts. The second is consolidating
contracts which already exist with community providers into one social
investment contract. The third is kicking off community commissioning to
give communities more power of the way they allocate government resources
to achieve social outcomes in their communities.
And the final is the co-investment innovation pathway to allow
iwi, philanthropists, community groups to co-invest with
government in initiatives they think will impact.
So those are the
four pathways under the fund. To give you just a little bit more detail on
each, if that's helpful. The first pathway
underway is
the round one new initiatives. You'll recall, we had three
demonstration initiatives, which are already underway.
They are with Autism New Zealand, they are with
Emerge Aotearoa,
and another one in Palmerston North working with families
there. We've also now
confirmed six new contracts worth up to 50
million that are expected to support more than 1,200 children and families
over four years. And now we've opened round two
for that commissioning,
and we've received 138 registrations of interest from which we've
invited 20 initiatives to submit full proposals.
So, all of that together, round one at approximately
70 million, round two up to 85 million of investment.
And in all of those investments, really clear investment
process, strong emphasis on cohorts, who
you are reaching.
Strong emphasis on delivery readiness, strong emphasis on
data and the ability to track results over time.
So we're still early in delivery, but we're seeing a really strong pipeline, clear
appetite for this approach, and real readiness to work within the social investment
framework.
The second area that I mentioned was changing the way government commissions
social services through contract consolidation.
Colleagues who've been in their communities for some time will
know that this is something that has
been talked about for a very long time.
NGOs and community groups often say, "Look, I've got multiple contracts
with government. I spend a lot of time administering the contracts, responding to
the audits. That's time that could be spent serving my community."
And we have agreed that where possible we should be consolidating those contracts
so people's efforts can be focused on impact, not on meeting government
contracting requirements. So, so far 47 contracts
across eight agencies have been consolidated into 12 new agreements with
a value of more than 95 million over four years.
Reducing fragmentation, duplication, moving towards more joined up
outcome focused services. In practice, that means fewer, more
strategic contracts, clearer expectations, greater flexibility
for providers to design services around people and whanau
rather than design standards set in Wellington, and
we're actively monitoring those transitions to
ensure continuity of services, and so far the early indications are very
positive.
The third area that we're progressing is community lead commissioning.
Registrations of interest in this were opened very
recently. This is all about enabling communities, iwi providers to
play a stronger role in shaping the services delivered in their particular
region and community.
Really big amount of interest in this, 50 applications for the
community commissioning.
The Social Investment Agency is working through those now and have
a process they can talk to. We don't expect recommendations to
come up to ministers until the end of July.
But it's really great to see the strong interest in this approach, and it's
something that we want to expand over time.
Initially, we're expecting up to two community commissioned approaches.
We want to prove those cases and expand that over time.
Finally, as I said, we have the co-investment and innovation
pathway. This is about time limited contracts,
where we would work to co-fund with iwi or a philanthropist or an
academic institution or another community partner, an initiative that we
think is high potential,
and that shows real innovation and a different way of doing things.
So beyond the delivery of the Social Investment Fund, we are also
working to ensure we have very good governance and assurance in
place. We have a Social Investment Fund ministerial group that meets regularly
to provide oversight of the fund. It also sets its investment priorities
and monitors its performance. We have the Social Investment Board, which
exists to provide independent advice and assurance to me, as well as
guidance to the agency on the development and implementation of social
investment.
Audit New Zealand has also done a probity review that has
been completed, and an independent procurement review is also underway.
We are very clear to ensure that decisions are robust, transparent,
consistently based on evidence, and clear assessment processes.
We need to give people confidence that public money is being used where it will
make the greatest difference.
Finally, we need to back the social investment system
with better data and evidence. And so we have been expanding
access to the integrated data infrastructure, and we've made it
significantly quicker to use. We've released tools and
guidance to help agencies and providers outside of government
understand what works and design services that deliver measurable improvements
and outcomes.
We, in this year's budget, increased our investment in the integrated
data infrastructure with a $57.7 million investment,
which will allow it to be upgraded to be used more easily and by
more people to more effect.
And we're already seeing increased use of data in both
investment proposals and commissioning decisions, and that
the community organizations receiving this data are actively
using it to amend their practice to change what they're doing to respond
to what that data's telling them. And I think that's very positive because a lot of
the time, those providing services feel like they're constantly giving data
to the government without getting anything out of it.
The IDI allows us to give them data that they can actually use
in an actionable way. Finally, of course, the
Social Investment Agency isn't just about the things it does itself, it's also
about providing system leadership to other government
agencies.
And in that regard, the fact that we've now proven social
investment contracting, which is focused on outcomes rather than
outputs, those models are being picked up by other
agencies. We also have other agencies, particularly
MSD and Oranga Tamariki, working to do the kind of contract
consolidation that we've shown leadership on in the Social Investment
Agency. And we've developed new ways of working with
communities and iwi to deliver better results, and that is having an impact
across the public service. So the vision, as it always
was, to move away from a fragmented output-focused social
services system to one that invests earlier, uses evidence
better, and backs communities to deliver results.
That's how we will improve outcomes for New Zealanders and ensure taxpayer funding
is directed to what works. So I could keep talking and talking, but
I would welcome your questions.
Thank you very much, Minister. There's so many things I want to pick up on that,
but I'll hold my questions for now, and I'll start with Ellen first.
Hello. Lovely to see you, Minister.
I want to know about the demonstration initiatives that have
been taking place. You've got three of them.
Yeah.
And I'd like to know,
we've just talked to the auditors.
Mm-hmm.
There's a performance audit underway, and
I want to know what they're finding and what you will share with
us about what they're finding and what lessons are being learned.
Mm-hmm.
So what difficulties in a candid way have you
encountered?
Mm-hmm.
And how has the practice changed?
So I'm going to just make a couple of comments on what those demonstration
initiatives are.
Yeah.
And I will hand over to Jo to provide some more detail on your
answer. So three initiatives, the Autism NZ
initiative is essentially about powering up
Autism NZ to provide better, earlier
support to families whose children are appearing to
be neurodivergent. It's on track to support around
200 families, particularly younger children, often one to two
years.
The children are referred to Autism NZ by someone in
the community. Parents can self-refer, it can be Plunket, it could be their
ECE service.
There are a number of referral pathways.
The early signs are really encouraging
that children's families who are
receiving this earlier intervention from Autism NZ and this earlier
support are reporting magnificent results.
So the example that I've been given is of a child who
was unable to be managed in an ECE service,
often alienated from the rest of their peers.
Now very, very happily attending with some changes in the way they're being
parented and supported and looked after.
But I'll leave you to talk to
the challenges there. But the evaluation of it is being supported by Victoria
University, and the SIA is providing data support in the
IDI. And again, Autism NZ have already used some of that data
that they're getting back out of the IDI to change some of their targeting.
For example, I understand in the hut they recognized that they weren't reaching
enough Maori, Pacifica, and Asian children in proportion to what they would expect
to see in the cohort, and that led them to change some of their referral
practices and ensure that they were reaching deeper into the community.
Second one, Emerge Aotearoa. So this is
operating in Hamilton and Christchurch, and this is about young people who are
getting in trouble with the police.
It's contracted to support 80 of those young people.
And the police make the referral to Emerge Aotearoa, and then they
use a multisystemic therapy approach where they work with families
and the young person to work out what's behind
the
behavior. And again, really strong initial feedback from parents
who are seeing significant changes in child wellbeing and behavior.
Again, the example that's top of mind for me is the young person
who, once they went through multisystemic therapy
actually with their parents,
that family uncovered that actually a lot of the reason the child was behaving
badly was because of things in the parents' relationship.
And when they addressed that, that actually led to a lot better
outcomes for the family as a whole.
Finally, He Puringa Whare, Te Tihi o
Ruahine, which is operating in Palmerston North.
This is focused on around 130 families who have
experienced housing instability.
So its key focus is getting families into stable
housing, and then providing support around them.
So,
the outcomes there are around school attendance,
engagement in work, engagement in training, and again,
initial signs and feedback are positive. What do you want to add, Joe?
I think just in terms of some of the challenges and lessons learned,
and I would acknowledge those three organizations and the six that we've worked
with, the time that they've spent working with us through some of the issues,
in terms of getting those outcome agreements in place. This is not simple.
Now, there is a reason that we don't have a complete suite of strong outcome-based,
well-evaluated contracts and agreements with the social service in place.
Doing the work up front takes some time, and sometimes you need to change
your operational data collection, your frontline practice, to be able to
inform your learning and evaluation, and that's often not allowed for
within contracts. Often the measures that organizations have
become used to measuring are fairly transactional,
financial accountability, how many FTEs you've got, how many cases have you got,
rather than what progress is being made and what-
How many home visits and how many sessions, rather than what indicators of
change in the family.
Yes. Can I-
Sure.
That's what I want to dig down into.
That's what the Social Investment Agency was all supposed to be about, was not
doing that. Have you been doing that in the contracts as they
are, and you're now having to adjust?
I want to know-
Oh, no
... in terms of the performance, so we know that there's a problem.
I want to know about the audit that's gone on and what
lessons have been learnt in that audit so far,
that you're adjusting the way that you work with those
organizations.
Yeah. So let's be clear. We are absolutely focused on getting outcome-based
agreements with strong evaluation plans, not repeating the mistakes of the past.
There are still some public finance accountability measures.
You have to know the activity is taking place, but you don't need to load that
heavily in the contract.
So for the outcome-based agreement itself, the main lessons we've learned is how
long it takes to get that in place. You've got a really clear theory of
change that the organization is working to, and you're making sure the organization
is making sure it's collecting the information it needs to know whether that theory
of change is playing out in practice.
And some of that information is shared with us.
The evaluation and learning plans that go alongside, we want to be in a position in
three or four years' time, the organization we're working with and the Social
Investment Agency, to know that initiative has had the desired
impact. And to know that with a high degree of confidence requires collecting
quite a bit of extra information using the IDI, bringing some of those other tools
to bear. So all in all, we're taking one or two months longer than would be
typical in the social service space to get to an outcome agreement.
But that's getting the right thing in place from the start rather than trying to
adjust it in the future.
So the Audit New Zealand review, just to be clear, because I think I understand
where your question's going. That was a probity review of round
one. So as I understand it, that probity review was looking at
was the selection process fair? Was the contracting
process transparent? Was it evidenced
well? And we came through that audit well.
So that was the purpose of the probity review.
So that was a narrow focus on did this meet
government finance and procurement rules, which it did.
There's a performance audit ongoing at the moment.
Yes.
In round one-
Yes. Yes
... of the new investments. Yes.
Yes.
And it's the lessons from that that I want to know about.
Oh, we haven't had the report yet. We've had good conversations with the
auditors. They've brought a lot of report information together, but we don't have
the findings from that audit yet.
So that's ongoing, and that's belt and braces, which is the
agency's doing their own work with these providers in real time, working out what's
working and how to make this work even better.
At the same time, we've also said, let's have this external review
and look, and we welcome its findings.
I want to ask a supplementary question.
I was actually thinking of doing it as a primary, but honestly, you touched on
outcomes versus outputs.
Mm.
There's been a particular interest as a committee for the last two and a half
years. We've had departments and agencies in front of us, and we've asked this
repeatedly, and frankly, the answers haven't been satisfactory
from, I think, most of our perspectives, if not all.
Mm.
But something Joe said maybe gives some clarity in
why that is, because you're saying that the things that they're measuring are
outputs and not outcomes, and maybe that is the...
So I'm really interested in what you are identifying-
Mm
... to actually dashboard what good outcomes can look like and how you actually
measure those. And that can then spread across the private sector more generally.
Or sorry, the public sector.
Yeah. So Joseph, you're hitting on something which is a bigger
issue.
Mm.
Which is about the way we as taxpayers and
members of the public get information from the government
about what is actually the result of the funding you put
into X or Y or Z. And that has been a
limitation of the Public Finance Act.
The Finance and Expenditure Select Committee have done a deep dive into that,
and have come up with some recommendations, and I'm very well disposed
to ongoing reform in that area.
And that is an area where government as a whole, when I mean government in the
generic sense, whether it's blue or red governments, successive governments,
haven't done that well enough, and it is an area we need to get better at.
For the Social Investment Agency, the approach that we have
taken is we've first said, well, what are the things that we want
to achieve?
And what Social Investment Fund ministers did was
we said, well, actually, let's set priority outcomes that are actually the
outcomes that we're trying to get from all the social spending.
We derived those from a combination of the government's own government
targets and the child and youth strategy.
They are improved health, greater safety, ensuring
stable and secure housing, improving knowledge and skills, growing income and
wealth, and supporting people into work.
Social Investment Agency, then for each of those, has a series of
measures that it uses to identify whether you're achieving those
things. But of course, then what matters is who-
You are targeting, because obviously the Social Investment Fund
can't seek to improve health for everyone.
So we have chosen specific cohorts that we are focusing
on through the Social Investment Fund.
And the cohorts,
the people we contract with need to identify that they're reaching these cohorts,
and they are children whose parents are current, or
parent, are currently or have recently been in prison,
children of parents who experienced the care system,
and children that were stood down or suspended from school when they were 12 or
younger. And the reason for picking those
cohorts was that we know from all of the research and the
evidence and the IDI, that early intervention with those
groups is likely to lead to much better, longer course
life outcomes. For the second round of investment, uh, in the Social
Investment Fund, we've added a fourth cohort that we're targeting, which is mothers
experiencing harm from substance abuse and their children from
pregnancy to age five. So we've got those broader outcomes we're going for, and
then we say, "Yeah, but for this fund, who are we focusing in on?" And then for
each contract, we're looking for outcomes across each of those areas.
But then we agree up front in the outcomes-based contract, okay,
which of these measures are you pledging will shift?
Let's agree how we'll measure it. How do we agree what we'll look at in the
IDI? How do we agree what we're going to evaluate?
And then together through that contract, we'll monitor it over time.
If you're not making good progress, um, let's look at what you need to
change. But if you don't make progress over time, then ultimately,
those contracts won't be renewed.
Thank you. Uh, new question, Andy.
Yeah, um, great fo- great focus on outcomes and, um, uh,
and, and on the marketing. I'm really interested in the, as you go through,
particularly the community side of things, um, as I go around the country, there's
a lot of fantastic, often quite small entities-
Mm
... that are doing amazing work and that others could probably learn from.
The contracting s- process sounds quite complicated.
Mm.
Um, how capable is SIA now,
but how capable does SIA hopefully be in future to be able to deal
with contracting for entities that are small,
maybe small regional entities who might be doing amazing stuff with getting
people's lives back together, um, often, often thinking in
the teenage years, um, getting people's lives back together, but they might be
really small. How does that contracting process work?
Yeah, I'll let these guys speak.
Yeah.
But I think I'd just be candid about a particular thing, which
is, um, part of what we're doing when we set
these new outcomes-based contracts and we're doing this monitoring, is we're
actually trying to set a standard of practice that is a bit higher than
it's typically been.
Mm-hmm.
And so not every, not every social service entity
is capable of delivering to that standard right now.
What I've been really encouraged by, though, is how
universal,
um, it is for NGOs and others to say, "Well, we want to be that good.
We want to have the maximum outcome we can for our community, so
how can you work with us to help us improve?" And so it is the case that we're
picking the people who are ready now, but part of our job as an agency is to
improve that, um, standard over time, because actually,
no NGO is working in their community without the desire to have the maximum
positive impact. And the truth is that data evaluation evidence helps them do their
job better.
One of the advantages of the community commissioning model is it actually enables
multiple smaller, uh, organizations to band together and say,
"Well, okay, in this community, we might be good at this, you're good at that.
If we come together and think about the cohorts, we can actually have a much
stronger position."
And, and, and that's really what we've been asked for consistently for many years.
So this model will enable that to happen.
It will invest in that local capability,
uh, and it will rely on them actually governing that at a local level, which is
what they've asked for. So there's a, a devolution with accountability.
Mm. Yeah, the community lead commissioning will allow the community
itself to judge-
Judge
... more, who do we think can do which bit.
Yeah.
And you know, you can imagine a scenario in which they say, "Well, for these
family violence services, actually, for this
particular group in our community, whether it's, um, immigrants,
whether it's people, um, who have a particular cultural
background, actually, we know that this entity are the best at reaching
those families, so we'll let them do that bit of the contract."
I'd probably just add to back up the minister's point earlier.
We are ruthlessly focusing on an outcomes-based approach, so not
just measuring activity.
Mm.
So, for, in that sense, as the minister indicated, there will
be agencies at a local level that might not have the systems,
the capability, the critical mass to do that initially, but with further investment
might. So that's also part of the, the model and the conversation.
Supplementary, Laura.
Just, just to sup on that. Um, how do you then manage
the financial aspects of a smaller organization,
um, not having the same level of oversight, etc., for
going into some kind of contract, um,
and making sure that, one, that they are able or capable to be able to do what
they want to do or, or what we want them to do?
So I'd be blunt.
Yeah.
That's kind of a prerequisite-
Yeah
... up front.
Yeah.
As we said to you, we're getting dozens of applications for the fund, and
it is the case that you have to tick some boxes in order to
be up to the standard you need to be-
Yeah
... to enter it, uh, and then we evaluate from there.
So if people don't have good financial controls in place-
Yeah. Yeah
... then they're not ready to, um, to-
Privacy, security controls, all of the sort of
price of admission skills and competencies.
Yeah.
New question, Maureen.
Um, thank you, Mr. Chair. Minister, the, um,
the, there's obviously funding from SIA going to support
these organizations to regroup, deliver.
But they're also delivering on,
they're also delivering services under different umbrellas now.
Mm-hmm.
So where's-
What compromise is being made with that funding that they're currently
using, and does that mean they'll continue to
get that funding and then we've got more bang for that?
Or, do you know what I mean? That-
Yeah, totally. It's a really good question.
So, in the example of these investments under
round one and two, these are programs that is-- we're specifically
funding, which are additive to the work that they may already do with government
funding from elsewhere, and they have to demonstrate what
they're going to be achieving within that particular area of work.
Over time, our vision is that the way we want to work with entities
is to have much more consolidated contracts, which is why we have the
separate part of the fund going, which is saying to entities, "Look,
if your view is that really what your job is to do is to keep families
safe, to reduce family violence, and keep kids out of court, but you've
had to parcel together 12 different contracts
against, across Oranga Tamariki, MSD, Education to do
that, and you're getting drowned in paperwork, come to us.
Let's see if we can stitch that into one outcomes-based contract
that sets clarity about the cohorts you're reaching,
clarity about the outcomes you will be achieving, and clarity between
us as government and provider about how we will measure your
performance against those outcome targets." So consolidating
contracts, I think, is a really important part of the
work that we're doing in the Social Investment Agency, and over time, that should
be gold standard across government.
Mm.
But to do it, you first have to have clarity about
what an outcome-based contract is.
Mm-hmm.
You have to have willingness from the provider to be measured using
data and evidence, agreement between the government and the
provider about what that measurement will look like.
And so it's not without some complexity, but real willingness
from social service providers to engage in that consolidation process.
Yeah. I just have a really quick sup on that.
Be- because one of the things, we've had IDI in here and had a chat with
them about it. One of the challenges they've got is how they
gather the health data.
Mm.
They said it's very challenging for them to get that information.
How can we assist, or how can they be assisted to get that
information?
Well, we've actually, our work on the SIA, how many have we added?
I want to give you the right number, but we've added 39 new data points to the
IDI. Is that the right number?
It's about right.
Yeah. So you're right, the IDI doesn't have everything in it right now,
and part of the reason we made the investment in the budget is to allow for the
fact that you want more data to be able to go into the IDI over time.
But the reality is, um, within constrained resources, there's on- only
so many uploads that can happen. Because you need to build both the capability of
the entity that needs to upload the information, you need to actually have a
computer system that can handle it.
Mm.
And then you need people on the other end who are trained into how you use that
data. That's my, um, high level explanation.
Do you want to add more on the health specifically?
Um, no. We do have some, some handouts we can leave, um, members with,
um, just to give you a bit of an example of what those outcome measures actually
are and how some of the feedback that we're giving organizations using that data.
That's great.
Just a, just a quick question. The outcome-based contractual sort of methodology
that you're implementing, does that also reduce the number of truck rolls that
people are getting up their driveways?
Yes.
Yeah.
That, that's a big part of it.
I mean, we talk about-
... families having sort of five cars up the driveway.
Mm.
It's exactly the same for the providers.
Yeah.
They're having five government agencies coming up to do an audit.
Bro, that's fantastic. That will be music to many ears in, in, in
regional New Zealand .
Yeah. You know, you've got someone in that organization who's spending literally a
day a week on servicing government contracts.
Mm.
And that person is in that NGO because they want to help families in their
community. And they're saying to us, "And we spend all this time giving you all of
this data, and we never see it again.
We're not sure actually that anything's done with it.
What is the point of all of this?" So we're trying to flip that over and say, "Less
time doing the meaningless admin, and when we collect data from you, we'll make
sure that we then give it back to you in a way that's meaningful and actionable and
insightful so that it is actually purposeful for you, too."
Brilliant. Next question.
Can I sup then?
Oh, sup.
Because my question is probably-
Oh, sure. Yeah, yep
... a sup to that.
Okay, sup.
Um, my question, uh, Minister, is, do we have an idea of the
quantum of the step change that this will make?
Because, um-
Mm
... I'm hearing in communities, you know, there are hundreds of millions of dollars
tied up in admin and monitoring and contract management and
delivering those aspects that could be better used as part
of this process, but as a result of this process, in actual frontline
delivery. Do we have, do we know, um, what that looks like in terms
of dollars or percentages?
Well, we know that overall, so if you leave aside all of the
funding that goes into the overall health system, the overall education
system, the overall welfare system, the universal kind
of social support that we provide, the government overall
commissions around $8 billion worth of social
services that we purchase from non, non-government
organizations, from iwi, from a range of
providers, to deliver some form of social
impact, whether that's getting kids to attend school, whether that's
reducing family violence, whether that's-
Driving license
... um, providing parenting support.
Huge spectrum of activity, and you and your electorates-
Mm
... see that and experience that. Um, then when we put another
layer over that and say, "Okay, how does government contract that?" We have, we
actually did a count at some time, and I can't remember the number.
Thousands of contracts.
Thousands.
Thousands upon thousands upon thousands of contracts, and lots of the
NGOs have multiple contracts with government agencies.
So my hypothesis is if we
allowed the best of our providers to focus more on the
outcome than serving the, um- I was going to be mean
and say bureaucracy in Wellington, but serving the needs of Wellington.
Beautiful.
Serving the needs of Wellington, and more time serving the needs of
their community, that would be a positive step.
Mm.
But here's the catch.
We also need to hold them accountable for the use of what
is public money, right? It's not enough just to say, "We trust you.
You're a lovely organization. Here's a check." Taxpayers rightly need
us to be able to say, "Yes, and here's the impact you got from that."
Mm.
But I think what the taxpayer cares about is, okay, how many more kids attended
school? How many fewer kids turned up in the emergency room?
How many fewer children turned up in the youth court?
Yep.
So let's get the contract focused on things we actually care about,
not how many family group conferences there were, how many times you made a home
visit, how many times you were audited.
Your question, Mike.
Thank you.
Thanks, Minister, for this information. It obviously shows there's a lot of demand.
And I guess my question's a two-part.
And I think you spoke to the community lead commissioning, which there was 50
odd applications, and you'll probably move forward with two.
Mm.
So significant demand, and I guess that there's two-part questions.
Does that point to actually a significant, I guess, need and funding
gap right now? And then you spoke about your want to
expand that. I guess, what does that actually look like
after this financial year, the next three financial years?
Mm.
What do you expect to expand it to?
So with the community lead commissioning, to be clear,
being part of community lead commissioning isn't about necessarily
extracting more resources from government.
This is about communities saying, "Well, there's already all of this government
money that goes into our community, and we see it."
But right now, how those resources are allocated to which
service providers on what terms is determined by a range of government
departments across a range of different votes, across a range of
different funding initiatives and streams.
And we're sitting on the ground here in, what region I can
safely say without feeling like I'm favoring anyone in the application process
currently.
Wellington.
In community A, in this part of Wellington.
Sail on.
In this particular part of Wellington, and we're saying, "Well, actually, we know
the families.
We know the providers. If you just gave us the resources, we'd get more
impact with that." Now,
my vision is that actually success would be, and this
would take success of Parliament, so I genuinely want everyone around this table on
side. Success would be that ultimately, every
community leads at least a portion of their
commissioning of social services to the families and children in need in their
community. Because I just truly philosophically believe
that they will be better placed to make the fine-grain decisions about how we help
people, who helps them, and in what way, than we can ever be, no matter
how well-intended and
well-motivated we are from a government agency that is necessarily
removed. Now, the point is, yes, we're only starting with two.
The fact that 50 communities have said, "I'm up for that," I think is really
positive.
Mm.
I'd love to do 50 at once. I think it would be a shambles, and we'd probably fail.
And I've watched too many governments, again, of both stripes, try and go bigger
than Ben-Hur, get a complete failure, and you don't get there.
What I've said to the agency, it is vital that these succeed.
We have to pick really carefully because there's big challenges
about who has the mandate in the community to be making those decisions.
Let's pick a community who are pretty all in behind the who has that
mandate, which as you know, communities have their own little things going on in
them.
And let's get people who are really up for the challenge of doing it in a way that
is up to the scrutiny that will be applied about how they've used the
funds, what they were asked for, what results they got.
So let's go through quite a careful process to pick them because once they're out
there as the poster children, that's a big call. Let's learn from it.
Let's prove success and expand that over time because actually,
ultimately, if communities are capable of it,
I think that's a way better way to get impact for the public dollar.
Well, look, I want to thank you, Minister, and you and your officials for appearing
in front of the committee. We touched on a raft of things.
A lot of interest in the Social Investment Agency from this committee.
A lot of interest in the outcomes versus outputs, methodology
underpinning basically social security more broadly, and also the integrated data
infrastructure and the use of better data driving better decision making.
So I'd rather wind the wind be at your back.
Thank you.
And I know that the agency has reached out to the various parties in the committee
over time to make clear that if you do ever want additional information-
Yep
... on both things, we're always willing to provide that.
We see this as a bipartisan endeavor and would love it to
endure over successive Parliaments.
Much appreciated.
Thank you.
Very good.